{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Python comes with several built-in data structures that are commonly used for storing and manipulating data. Some of the most commonly used ones include:\
\
1. Lists: Lists are ordered collections of items. They are mutable, meaning you can change the elements they contain after they have been created. Lists are defined by square brackets [ ] and can contain elements of different data types.\
python\
Copy code\
my_list = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]\
\
2. Tuples: Tuples are similar to lists, but they are immutable, meaning they cannot be changed after they are created. Tuples are defined by parentheses ().\
python\
Copy code\
my_tuple = (1, 2, 3, 4, 5)\
\
3. Dictionaries: Dictionaries are unordered collections of key-value pairs. Each key-value pair maps the key to its corresponding value. Dictionaries are defined using curly braces \{\}.\
python\
Copy code\
my_dict = \{'name': 'John', 'age': 30, 'city': 'New York'\}\
\
4. Sets: Sets are unordered collections of unique elements. They are useful for tasks that involve checking for membership and eliminating duplicate entries. Sets are defined using curly braces \{\} or by using the set() function.\
python\
Copy code\
my_set = \{1, 2, 3, 4, 5\}\
\
5. Strings: Strings are sequences of characters. While not exactly a data structure in the same sense as the others, strings are fundamental for representing and manipulating textual data in Python.\
python\
Copy code\
my_string = "Hello, World!"\
\
These built-in data structures are versatile and can be combined and manipulated in various ways to solve a wide range of programming problems. Additionally, Python also provides other data structures through modules in its standard library, such as arrays, deque, and heapq, among others.}